---
layout: post
title: "Into Big Bear Lake"
date:  2017-06-08 20:48:19
categories: pct
lat: 34.244272
lng: -116.906042
---
I'm happy to say that today was a pretty good day, all things considered.  I got up on schedule, but decided it was cold still and that I'd rather sleep in, so I did.  Around 8:30, I finally got back on the trail and moving.  I had basically no pain (just lingering right foot stiffness), and since I only had to do a little under 8 miles today, I was able to finish my hiking before I started to experience any pain.

The walk today was again pretty pleasant - lots more walking near ridgelines, and with some trees around, so it didn't feel terribly hot or terribly dull.  I passed a few dayhikers going the other way today, and they strike me as pretty strange now - I'm here with gear to survive for days, and seeing them casually wander out onto the PCT with nothing but a liter Nalgene bottle of water just seems strange.

{% include image.html url="0608_view.jpg" caption="View during the last few miles before Highway 18" %}

{% include image.html url="0608_view2.jpg" caption="Another view during the last few miles before Highway 18" %}

I was off in my own world while hiking today, which is always a joy - just mulling over thoughts both deep and inane as I walk along enjoying the views and physical exertion.  It's when I'm the happiest on the trail, and when the miles (and hours) just seem to fly by.  Especially when I'm in pain, it can seem like I've been walking for *at least* 30 minutes only to look down and see something paltry like 5 minutes has actually passed.

{% include image.html url="0608_retreat?.jpg" caption="Some big building with a wind turbine, solar panels, a water wheel, and strange things which, lacking a better view, I whimsically decided are novelty steam-powered tractors.  I'd guess it's some kind of retreat." %}

I had a very interesting hitch into Big Bear Lake, which is a story I don't feel like retelling here (at least right now).  Nothing scary or anything, just interesting and informative for me.

The only problem is that once I got to Big Bear Lake, I found that the Big Bear Hostel was closed until Sunday for a private event.  This was already my second option, as I had originally planned on staying at the International Travelers' House (another hostel), but they're currently closed for renovations.  I wandered around downtown a bit carrying my pack, looking and smelling like a vagrant, before deciding to stop by the post office to get my resupply package and figure out what to do from there.  If I ended up going out of town, at least this way I'd have my resupply package.  Unfortunately, my dad had sent me shoes to the Post Office as well, which hadn't yet arrived - so I'd have to come back anyway.  At least going to the Post Office gave me something of an excuse to sit on the shaded bench outside and figure out what my options were (Plan C time).  On my way to pick up the package, I ran into a couple of hikers who looked very fresh (I'd guess they're starting the trail from Big Bear, judging by how excited they were to meet another hiker, the fact that they actually wanted to shake hands, and how clean their gear looked).  Fun fact - no one sane on the trail wants to shake your hand, we all know we're filthy.  I try to avoid even touching my own food before eating it, the last thing I want is contact with your grubby hands and, through them, your unknown hygiene habits.  It's a pretty popular way - at least through rumor - to get off-trail thanks to something like Giardia.  Mostly we just talk to each other, or wave/nod from a respectable distance.  If someone's really going in for the handshake, you can either politely decline (with some explanation about the general filthiness of hikertrash, probably playing it like you're the one not wanting to get them dirty if you want to be really nice about it) or offer up the fistbump as a less-contact-having alternative.  I've only shaked hands with a few hikers, and only in town, and my first reaction afterward is to wash my hands or douse them in antibacterial hand sanitizer.  If I get forced off the trail, I really don't want it to be from eating food after shaking hands with someone who didn't clean properly after "dropping the kids off at school."  Anyway, these fresh-looking hikers told me where they had stayed on the recommendation of Haymaker, who I know only by reputation.  Basically, he's moving fast.  That's what I know about him.

I didn't take the number from them, thinking it would be easy to just look it up online.  That was a mistake I won't repeat.  I'm fairly certain I ended up at the right place, but it has at least three names, and I think they botched the name slightly when telling it to me.  It's the one that was in the right direction / distance, and had the name most similar, but it would have been a good idea to just take the number to make absolutely certain I ended up at the intended spot.

I hung out here for a bit, and then threw on what I tend to refer to as my "hikertrash best" - whatever is clean and marginally acceptable to wear among normal people.  On rare occasion, or among other hikers, this can just be my sleep clothes.  When going into town the preferred option is borrowed clothes from a hiker-friendly place that keeps such things.  Failing that, it tends to be freeballing it in my wind pants (seldomly worn, and always over my running shorts) and throwing on whatever top is cleanest and won't be stupidly hot.  Today, that meant I wore my temporarily acquired L.L. Bean shirt.  It's definitely a medium, and that's definitely a bit small for me.  I rolled the sleeves up, as they were inches short on my arms, and at least that helped it look relatively normal.  My only plan was to go to a nearby laundromat, so I didn't have to look super anyway.  I'd say I did a fair job, as when I went to talk to the Front Desk lady about laundry and potentially getting a package sent here, she didn't even recognize me.  In fairness, that may be because I was showered and didn't have my hair up in a ponytail any more.

{% include image.html url="0608_hikertrashbest.jpg" caption="Looking good(ish)" %}

I hung out at the laundromat while doing laundry, and worked on catching up on some of the blogging - including some tweaks like resizing and further compressing images so they aren't as ridiculously large as they had been.  If I'd had more time to set this site up, and was running it off my own server, I would have made some script to generate thumbnails of the images in addition to reducing the full-size images.  Oh well.

By the time laundry was done and I was back at my room, I didn't really feel like walking anywhere.  It's frequently said that thru-hikers transform in town into incredibly lazy people, avoiding walking if at all possible, and there's some truth to it.  Occasionally, I just feel light without my pack and like walking around is cakewalk, but generally it feels pretty good to just not walk at all.  I ordered delivery from a place (Himalayan) that serves food from Nepal, Tibet, and northern India.  Mostly, I got Indian.  It was delicious, and I have leftovers for breakfast tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to a couple zeroes, and hopefully finally getting my lingering injuries worked out.  I was very happy to discover that this room not only has a tub, but a very deep tub (unlike the shallow one in Banning), so I'm planning to take a nice, long Epsom Salt bath at some point.