---
layout: post
title: "Triple Zero in Big Bear Lake"
date:  2017-06-11
categories: pct
lat: 34.244272
lng: -116.906042
---
Well, I've now been in Big Bear Lake for three days, which is two days longer than I would have liked in an ideal world.  When I arrived here, I was planning on taking a double zero to help my (still-hurting) foot get a little more rest, but then I talked with my Dad and learned my shoes (being shipped to me) were not going to arrive until the 14th.  He found them for sale near him, so he shipped me a second pair, which are now slated to arrive the 13th.  Big Bear Lake doesn't have street delivery, at least where I am staying, so everything has to go to the Post Office / PO Box / General Delivery and it seems FedEx, etc. don't offer weekend delivery (possibly as a side effect of this).  It seems pretty ridiculous to order a second pair of expensive trail runners (and expedited shipping) just to shave off a day stuck in Big Bear Lake, but I'm pretty grateful for it as I get pretty stir-crazy when stuck in town for any length of time.  Also, each additional day I spend here is additional money I don't really have spent on lodging and eating out.  Though it's nice to have a real bed and eat everything in sight, the costs add up pretty quickly...and it gets old pretty quickly as well.

Big Bear Lake is at least a nice little town, with some cool local shops and restaurants, and it's a very pleasant temperature outside as well.  That said, I haven't spent much time outdoors.  For someone who is outside pretty much all the time recently, it's sort of comical how little time I spent outside while in Big Bear Lake.  A part of it, to be sure, is that I've been trying to let my foot heal by staying off of it.  I still have stiffness ("hiker hobble") when I first get up, but after that I'm not experiencing much pain in either foot while walking around, which is great.

Really just to kill time, I have seen a couple of movies while here.  I went and saw *Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales* yesterday, which was disposable popcorn fodder.  Today, I watched Wonder Woman, which I enjoyed quite a bit more.  I generally don't like popcorn much ever, but I was feeling it today especially after I learned that many theaters don't actually use butter on their popcorn, but a soy- or coconut-oil based topping.  I asked about this at the theater in Big Bear Lake, and was told that theirs was soy-based, so I continued my gluttonous feeding spree and got a jumbo popcorn slathered in "butter".  They still market it as butter, which is kind of funny to me, but I guess most people prefer to think that they're eating processed products from bovine mammaries than plant-based oil.  I'm sure the theaters just do it because it's cheaper.

I have just eaten the continental breakfast at the Inn where I'm staying the past couple of days (bagels, fruit, coffee, OJ), but I did have Mexican at a couple of different places.  I thought both of them were ok, but neither was anything exceptional.  Tonight, I had calculated how much food I need for the next leg of my journey and found that I had an extra dinner, so I ate that for dinner tonight.  Specifically, I had the "Corn Chowder with TVP", which I have thus far totally avoided.  I've always had extra food either due to getting too much in resupply, or having leftovers from my previous leg, and from taste-testing before I started this journey I knew the corn chowder was my least favorite...so it's always been the one donated.  In a trivial gesture toward saving money, I decided to eat this one rather than eating out.  I had the benefit of hot water, thanks to a coffee pot in my room, but I must say it was way better than I remember.  I'm no longer dreading the day I actually have to eat one on the trail.  The other nice thing was it meant I got to test my new food container - a Talenti gelato container my parents sent me.  I had seen someone else (Rooster) using one for cold-soaking, and it looked perfect.  I'm happy to report that it is - it's just big enough that my spoon fits inside without having to be bent, it's more solid by far than my Gatorade container, it has much better (and wider) threading, and - since I can see through it - it's really easy to make sure the food is well-mixed and, after eating, that the container is properly cleaned.

When I first got here I was sitting in bed a lot, listening to podcasts (namely, This American Life), and sleeping a lot, which I wrote off as just being tired from the trail.  As this behavior extended to multiple days, it's clear to me that I'm not just tired, but in the beginning stages of depression.  I have gotten pretty good over the years at noticing signs of depression in myself, and one of the obvious ones is just sleeping a lot.  I really just feel useless bumming around town, doing nothing, and am always ready after a day to be back on the trail moving, seeing new things, being active and outdoors.  I'm looking forward to getting out of here tomorrow.