---
layout: post
title: "Fire Detour to Idyllwild"
date:  2017-05-30 20:50:21
categories: pct
lat: 33.744121
lng: -116.709817
---
Today was a pretty interesting day.  I got up and was hiking by 6am, because I was pretty intent on getting in as many of the hours I was hiking today as I could before it started getting stupidly hot.  I had actually intended to be hiking by 5:30am, but when my alarm went off at 4:30am I just fumbled at my watch in annoyance until I managed to silence it, sleeping in until the much more civilized time of 5am.  It takes me about an hour to pack up everything and have breakfast.  I could probably get this time down a bit, but honestly I sort of enjoy the ritual of doing it slowly, and - even more honestly - I'm pretty damn sluggish in the morning and sometimes it feels like it's all I can do not to just opt to stuff myself back into my sleeping bag rather than stuffing my sleeping bag into it's stuffsack.

There was some small creature rustling in the brush near my tent, seemingly oblivious to my presence.  I entreated him to reveal himself, in increasingly comical fashion - at least, I amused mysellf with my various bad impressions of cartoon characters as I demanded he come out.  Elmer Fudd probably amused me the most.  These are the sorts of things I'm only comfortable doing when I'm fairly confident no-one is around, and out there in the woods I'm pretty confident I know when no-one is around.  People tend to be pretty loud relative to other creatures as we come jangling, squeaking, sloshing, and stomping along the trail, and I heard no such noises.

About half a mile down the trail I found Katie getting up from her hammock (I think the hammock is pretty awesome, it seems like you'd get great sleep, I'm seriously interested in it for the Sierra section at least).  She was pretty happy to have her glove back, and offered me a candy bar or coffee as a reward.  Hot coffee was pretty damn tempting.  As I'm fairly sure I've said repeatedly by now, hot coffee is one of the few things I really miss out here.  I was pretty intent on making my early morning miles though, so I declined and pressed on.  What followed was a series of switchbacks as I continued to rapidly shed all the elevation I had climbed yesterday, before arriving at Fobes Ranch Road.  From here, it was an easy - but not ugly - walk to Highway 74.  This is also where I did something stupid.  Days arlier in my hike, I was drinking from one of my SmartWater bottles while hiking down the trail.  Since I always use my trekking poles, this involved tucking both of them under one arm while unscrewing the SmartWater bottle in one hand and then drinking from it while still holding the cap.  I dropped the cap.  This experience prompted me to think, "Ok, Sam, let's not be stupid.  Rather than risk losing the cap, or doing something else dumb trying to save five seconds, just stop for the duration."  Well, today I violated that simple, smart rule.  While walking down the road, I decided to check the map on my phone to confirm how far I had to walk before meeting up with Highway 74.  Naturally, I walked right onto the edge of a loose rock, and my left leg did a very ungraceful - and painful - simultaneous rolling and sliding motion as I stepped on the rock and it slid.  Since I had my phone out, it also meant I had my trekking poles tucked under my arm, so I wasn't able to use them to make it any less awkward or shift some of the load off my leg.  Great.  It immediately felt tight, and walking - especially downhill - became slower and a bit painful.  The internet tells me what I hurt was my adductor muscles.  I told my stupid adductor muscles that Idyllwild was only about 5 hours of walking away, and that they'd have a full day of rest there, so they'd best just suck it up and keep working until then because I had no intention of stopping.

{% include image.html url="0530_cowgrate.jpg" caption="Cow Grate - proceed delicately to avoid hurting feet" %}

{% include image.html url="0530_cowgrate2.jpg" caption="Cow Grate - seriously, this thing's a menace" %}

After crossing Highway 74, the detour followed a washed-out, overgrown service road running under some power lines alongside the highway for a while, and that was - I must be honest - a pretty boring section of walking.  It was the first time I'd ever considering getting my headphones out while walking to  make it more enjoyable, but I couldn't be bothered to stop, take off my pack, and dig out my headphones just to get through a few boring miles.  The most interesting thing on this section is that I found a US Army branded knife, which I picked up.  I have no idea why, really, it's dead weight that I have no use for, and I have no idea whose it is and basically no chance of finding the owner.  I'll probably end up dumping it in a hiker box.  The pain in my leg began to subside as I kept walking along this trail.  Eventually, it met up with HIghway 74 again, where a sign instructed us hikertrash to "Please close the gate".  I really wish I had taken a picture, because there was one big problem with this request - there was no stupid gate.  I'm guessing it was a victim of the fire, but all that was there was one waist-high section of barbed wire.  I wasn't inclined to try to hurdle over it with a 30ish lb. pack on and a pissed-off adductor, so I reluctantly removed my pack, hoisted it over, and then followed myself.  This is not the first obnoxious "gate" I've encountered.  The other notable one was leaving Warner Springs, where a gate had the chain attached all the way at the bottom of the gate.  When you're carrying a fully-loaded pack, bending over to unchain, and then rechain, something that is near your shins is not the most enjoyable.

{% include image.html url="0530_knife.jpg" caption="US Army Recruitment Tool" %}

From here, there was about an unavoidable 1.6 mile section along the road.  It sucked.  There's simply no other way to put it.  It wasn't interesting, and a lot of the drivers around here are assholes.  Numerous times people buzzed me as I walked in the narrow shoulder, even when their was absolutely no traffic in the other direction so they could have given me plenty of room.  I don't know if people are just legitimately assholes, or just so zoned-out or oblivious to how it feels to be walking on the side of a road with fast-moving traffic that they never even stop to think, "Gee, why don't I give this guy a little safety buffer."  I even had one asshole cut the wheel toward me at the last second like he was going to hit me.  Thanks, asshole.  He wasn't even my least favorite, though.  That award goes to the tow-truck driver with the giant chrome grill.  He passed me as I was going over a bridge, so I literally had nowhere other than the tiny shoulder to walk.  He passed me with his tires on the white line of the shoulder, and his big-ass mirrors hanging easily a foot over into the shoulder - inches from my head.  I turned around, saw that there wasn't even any oncoming traffic, and gave him my biggest, most animated "what the fuck?" pantomime.  I guess I will concede asshole drivers are one reason people might skip this section, that I would find hard to dispute.  The one redeeming moment was when a guy in an old Toyota pickup gave me a big double-thumbs up as he drove past.  I gave him a thumbs-up back, and that really made me smile.

{% include image.html url="0530_lakehemet.jpg" caption="Information about Lake Hemet Dam" %}

Eventually I made it to the Hurkey Creek Campground, where I briefly met some guy trying to hitch his way into Idyllwild.  I explained my "continuous footpath" approach, and asked him if he knew where to get water in the campground.  He gave me this convoluted answer about where there was a stream.  I was like um, campground, faucets, they are there, I know it.  Then he told me how I could go past the restrooms, through a section of downed fence over a log, and find a faucet.  The hell?  This all sounded unnecessarily complicated and sketchy.  I walked down the road to the Campground, where I met the sweetest ranger lady, and asked her where I could find water.  In contrast with strange dude's sketchy answer, she directed me to a campsite literally 100 feet away with a faucet supplying clean well-water.  Sometimes I wonder about people, it seemed like that dude had gone to great effort to get water like he had to do it sneakily / sketchily rather than just, you know, asking where he could get water?  I knew there were mountain bikes trail that led to the rest of the detour, so you could avoid any more hiking along the highway.  I asked her about these, and she told me exactly where I could find the trailhead for these.  I don't consider myself particularly socially gifted, but even to me this seemed like pretty bare-minimum interaction to learn simple facts.  I'm still confused about how that guy came to the conclusion that he needed to be some sketchy ninja to get water, especially at a public park.  It's been my experience that the rangers are pretty happy to help us however they reasonably can.

I "cameled up" at Hurkey Creek, had some fig bars, and took a break on a picnic table.  I also put out a fire, so I guess you can start calling me a hero now.  Ok, so it was just some smouldering logs in a fire pit that had a big sandy buffer around it, but I still don't understand how someone thought it was acceptable to drive off leaving smouldering logs there.  There *was* a breeze, and it certainly could have started burning again or had a stray ember fly off.  After my break, and a visit to their bathroom where I washed my hands, face, and legs - realizing just how filthy I was despite feeling pretty clean, having baby wiped myself down thoroughly earlier - I continued on with the detour into Idyllwild down the bike path.  This met up with a couple of service roads, including a lot of uphill, and a lot of travel through some recovering sections of the burn.  There was a very pretty meadow, and it made me appreciate the importance of the closure as a means to allow the area to recover.

{% include image.html url="0530_mayvalleyrd.jpg" caption="Shot from May Valley Road (service road), near the top of the climb" %}

{% include image.html url="0530_idyllwild.jpg" caption="Welcome to Idyllwild - Home of Adventure, Music, Art & Harmony" %}

Eventually I made it to Idyllwild, where I checked into the Silver Pines Lodge based on the recommendation of Drifthead and Ghost.  I went out and gorged on a giant salad (sort of becoming my thing) along with a huge, delicious pizza from the local pizza place.  The place was super-awesome, and very hiker-friendly (10% discount, and I'm now on their wall of fame), and the pizza really was amazing.  He let me throw a bunch of extra things on for free, so I ended up with a pizza loaded down with tomato, bell peppers, mushrooms, artichoke hearts, jalapenos, cashews, onions, olives, and other things I'm probably forgetting.  It was really, really good.  I was particularly impressed by the crust, which they brush with olive oil and liberally apply sea salt to.  The cashews were also surprisingly delicious. I"ve had pizzas with cashew-based cheese before, which is really good, but I don't know that I've ever just had pizza with cashews on it.  Highly recommended.  While sitting there, I looked across the parking lot and realized there was a vegan cafe.  This made me feel a little guilty about not going there, until I realized it wasn't even open.  I'll try it tomorrow.

I made my way back to my room at the Silver Pines Lodge, where Chris (the owner) had my laundry ready for me.  Yeah, I didn't mention that - they do a free load of laundry for hikers.  I can't tell you how nice clean clothes are after wearing the same shirt for multiple days in 90+ degree heat.  The last day, I finally wore my t-shirt despite losing sun protection on my arms, just because I couldn't stand to put my long-sleeved shirt on for another day because it was so filthy.  I had gotten a plastic foot bath from Chris, and picked up some Epsom Salts at the market, so I sat and read some short stories by Jack London (a book in the room) while soaking my feet, before heading to bed.  Life is good.
