---
layout: post
title: "Zero day at the Quality Inn"
date:  2017-06-03 22:08:34
categories: pct
lat: 33.92488
lng: -116.895221
---
I got up around 5:30 am today - I guess I'm becoming a morning person in spite of myself - and began to think about what to do.  My left leg adductor muscles were still feeling sore, and my right ankle was feeling swollen and stiff, so I knew I needed to take a zero day.  I had considered staying at Hillbilly's, but I really didn't like breathing in all the cigarette smoke, and I really wanted to get some quality, uninterrupted rest in (which I didn't see happening there).  I also really wanted to take a bath so I could soak my left leg.  I knew Mike (Bigfoot) had decided to get off the trail, so his dad was coming to pick him up.  I talked to him, and asked if I could get a ride into Banning so I could stay at the Quality Inn and take a more restful zero there.  His dad said it wasn't a problem, so I got a ride to the Quality Inn.  The only problem was it was around 7:30am when his dad arrived.  He is, or at least was, a soil inspector, and he had done several projects out in Banning and Cabazon, so he was quite familiar with the area.  They dropped me off, I thanked them, and checked in to the Quality Inn.  Much to my surprise, and delight, the woman working the front desk let me have the room immediately, so I was able to go take a bath and relax immediately.  I also took advantage of the fact that their hot breakfast was still out, and had an apple, several glasses of OJ, and four tiny bagels with jam.

Since then I've just been hanging out, napping, listening to music, looking at the trail ahead of me, eating, and now for the last several hours updating this blog.  I created an account on facebook in the hopes of joining the PCT Class of 2017 group, in order to try to find a ride out of here, but so far I haven't been accepted into the group so I'm still unsure how exactly I'm getting out of here.  I'm also still unsure I actually should, as my leg is still feeling sore and I don't want to repeat this cycle again.  I'm just really anxious to get back on the trail...it's really where I want to be, and I feel like too many days off trail will make me weak.  Right now, I'm thinking I'll probably end up sitting on my ass here another day, hoping my leg heals more completely.  It sucks, because other than my leg (and, to a lesser extent, my right ankle) I feel so ready to start doing 20-25 mile days consistently.  I have my pace down, my rhythm, how to pack my pack, when to break, getting up early...I just was feeling really good about everything, and now I feel stuck.

<{% include image.html url="0603_qinn.jpg" caption="NOTE the value" %}
