---
layout: post
title: "Mount Laguna"
date:  2017-05-21 19:20:04
categories: pct
lat: 32.866715 
lng: -116.420443
---
Made it to Mount Laguna, and decided it's time for my first zero.  It's earlier than I would have liked, and my pace is slower than I would have liked - but I'm quickly learning to just accept that I'm going to do what I can each day however much or little that ends up being.  The big reason for taking a day here in Mount Laguna is to switch out / get some new gear, and take a little downtime so I don't end up overdoing it and getting *forced* off the trail for a longer time.

On the gear note, my ultra-light pad (some tiny piece of foam from Gossamer Gear, recommended in Yogi's Guide) can go shove it.  It may provide enough insulation for a cold ground, but it does absolutely nothing in the way of padding and it's really making it hard for me to get to sleep.  I generally sleep on my side or stomach, so it's hard enough getting used to sleeping in a mummy bag / on my back without feeling like every little imperfection in the ground is stabbing at me.  Complaining about mummy bags aside, I actually really like my bag (Mountain Gear HyperLamina).  In particular, I dig the center zipper.  It means it's really easy when it isnt super cold to unzip it partway and stick your arms out, which is nice.  The second thing with gear is the Sawyer Squeeze bags.  I wasn't originally planning on using them, but a Platypus bag I already had.  Unfortunately, when I tested it at home I found the threading was different enough that it leaked.  Dirty water dripping down the Sawyer and (potentially) into whatever I was putting clean water into seemed like a pretty shit idea,  The downfall of the Sawyer bags is that they're really hard to fill in shallow water, maybe about impossible.  I'd seen in one video a guy using a piece of a smartwater bottle as a makeshift funnel to fill them, so I guess I could try that, but I'd rather have a more permanent / better solution.  I'll have to try to find out if camelbak bags have the proper threading, or if I can get an Evernew bag (which I've heard fits perfectly).  My on-the-trail improvisation was cutting a corner off of a gallon zip-loc bag, filling the bag, and funneling it from the cut corner into the Sawyer bags.  It's ... functional but inelegant, and quite tedious especially since I cut the corner hole a little too large so it's difficult to get it to flow into the Sawyer bags without just spilling all over the sides as well.

Leaving Yellow Rose Spring this morning, I had a pretty funny little encounter.  Some unsuspecting woman (and later two others) came down to the spring with her dog, and I don't think she even noticed my camp.  I said "good morning" as I approached her heading to the Creek for water, and I think I startled her a bit.  Oops.  Normal people doing normal Sunday things...

Despite my best efforts, I've met a few fellow thru-hikers on the trail, but I'm still kind of happiest to just be totally alone, doing my own thing, and enjoying the sounds of nature rather than other persons' voices.  Case in point: I sat alone when I went to dinner at the Pine House Cafe tonight, rather than joining the "PCT Hiker" table.  I don't know...my rationalization to myself was that they looked like they were mid-way through dinner, so I didn't want to crash their scene; If I'm being more honest though, I just didn't really want to summon the energy to talk to other people.  I was pretty happy to sit by myself quietly, and eat a whole lot of food.  I had about half a bowl of vegan chili, an order of fries, and a really delicious house salad.  So delicious in fact that I got a second one to-go so I can have it later tonight or for breakfast tomorrow.

It was damn hot today, or at least it felt that way.  Hiking uphill with the sun beating down on you probably is a contributing factor.  As with every day this trip, I keep asking myself, "why the fuck didn't I start earlier in the day?" to avoid some of the heat.  Instead, I keep starting between 9-10, right as the sun is fully primed to sap energy at peak efficiency.  Mostly, it's just been because I'm tired - so I'm slow to get up, slow to pack, and slow to then hit the trail.  I think once I've rested here and got a better (read: thicker) sleeping pad, I'll be in much better shape for early morning starts.  Ideally, I'd like to hit the trail between 6-7, hike for a few hours, and then take a nap.  It seems like it would be a nice way to break up the day, and a good option to avoid some of the most brutal mid-day heat.

Speaking of heat, despite slathering myself in sunscreen every day, I'm a little burnt on my hands and am developing some killer farmer's tan on my legs (visible once all the accumulated dirt was scraped away).  I'll have to keep an eye on that, and get some stronger sunscreen or reapply it during a midday break (hopefully taken in the shade).

After some pretty grueling uphill today, right as I was starting to question why I'm doing this - hiking through arid mountains as I'm getting totally sapped by the intense sun - is about when I got to the pine forests that form the approach to Mount Laguna.  Entering them immediately made me feel way better, and way better about hiking, and the last several miles of that were pretty tame - no real uphills.  Looking at the map it's nice to know that I'll be going mostly downhill for the next 30ish miles, but then it's a long climb up to San Jacinto.  It makes me laugh about the "grueling uphill" of today, since it was only a taste compared to what's to come.  The good news is I'm already getting pretty good about getting into a rhythm where I stop caring about whether I'm going uphill, straight, or downhill; The only downside is that my pace in that rhythm is not particularly fast.  I'm probably going about 2.5mph when hiking, which I guess is actually pretty average, but it's slower than I'd like.  I think it's going to be about my max. for a comfortable  pace for a while though, so the easiest thing to change is going to be hiking more hours per day rather than hiking faster.

To any potential readers of this, my apologies for how scatter-brained these posts are...it's just wordvomit of whatever thoughts come into my head, and I don't generally have the time or energy to revisit and revise them.  The biggest reason for this is mostly as a journal for myself, as suggested by my sister, to ensure I remember the hike once it's over.  If I didn't have it public, and didn't have a keyboard, it probably wouldn't exist at all or would be so terse as to be useless to anyone (e.g. "It was hot today.").  I've been really looking forward to sleeping in a bed all day, so I'm going to end this here, go brush my teeth, and go to bed.  Until next time.
