---
layout: post
title: "At Warner Springs - but what happened to the last two days?"
date:  2017-05-26 17:25:34
categories: pct
lat: 33.274423 
lng: -116.644914
---
So, if you're a member of what I suspect is the non-existent group following my day-to-day ramblings of life of the trail, you probably noticed the last several days didn't have any entries.  There's a reason for that, which will probably be abruptly apparent below.  I've included a log (written today) for each of the three days up to and including today,  below.

## 05/24 - From somewhere to Scissor's Crossing
{% include image.html url="0524_rattlesnake.jpg" caption="Finally - A Rattlesnake Picture" %}

Today, I started pissing blood.  (So much for any TMI warning).  As I was walking along, I had the same concerns about limited flow and color (which appeared dark yellow), and then I took off my sunglasses one time while peeing and noticed - that's not the same dark yellow from yesterday, that's fucking red.  As you might suspect, I was pretty worried about the fact that it now looked like I was pissing cherry soda.  I immediately got to doing some internet doctoring (there actually *was* a data signal that day, many days there hasn't even been a cell signal), in an attempt to figure out just how worried I should be - my anticipated scale ranged roughly from pretty goddamn worried to call for a medevac now.  The unconcerning cause was eating things like beets, concerning because I hadn't eaten anything like beets.  Other exciting options ranged from "vigorous exercise" to kidney failure.  Hooooooly shit.  This is really not good.  Now I'm really not having a good time.  

By the time I realized I was actually peeing blood, I was about 5 miles in with about 12 miles to go.  I *knew* I was still dehydrated, despite having a liter of propel before I started, so I decided fuck rationing, this is really, really not good - I need some water **now**.  I drank until I had about a liter and a half left, which did mean that a liter and a half also now had to last me about 12 miles.  Katie passed by me while I was taking a break, and I said I was worried I was getting pretty dehydrated.  She incredibly graciously offered me some of her water, but I really didn't feel comfortable taking it.  I believe she had 4 liters, but at the start of a 17-mile water-free stretch is not where you want to end up running low on water unexpectedly.  For reference, Yogi's guide recommends 1 liter every 5 miles (possibly down to 4 in the desert, I don't remember and don't have the book with me), and by my own tallying I was drinking a liter somewhere between every 3-4 miles when it was really hot out.

I decided to hope that what I was experiencing was related to the "vigorous exercise" option, something that usually resolved itself in 24-48 hours.  I continued pushing onward, really worried about my condition.  I kept following the narrow cliff-side path of the PCT as far as I could see it, thinking fun thoughts like, "How the hell would anyone get me from here if I start bleeding out of my ass and keel over?  Would I even be able to call 911 if I let it get to that point?"  Thankfully (and in one good bit of planning) I was aware that the day was going to be quite cool compared to normal, which did factor into my decision.  It was also a bit cloudy (but not much) which I'm sure helped me conserve water just a little bit more.  All I can say about the remainded of the trip to Scissor's Crossing is that I didn't enjoy it at all.  I was so worried about my health that I was basically staring at the trail for most of the way just trying to get back to civilization and water before something tragic happened.  I started picturing things like being at the memorial service for my dad after he had donated his kidney to save me when mine failed, dying himself in the process, and having to try to explain how my dumb actions caused that.  I couldn't tell you if that's actually a thing, but it sure was making me feel really shitty.

{% include image.html url="0524_scissors.jpg" caption="Selfie at Scissor's Crossing" %}

I did make it to Scissor's Crossing, where I drank several liters of water while relaxing in the shade of the bridge, trying to figure out the "What Now?"  I had pretty much already decided I needed to get to Julian, wait the 24-48 hours somewhere near civilization, and see a doctor if it hadn't resolved itself by then.  I didn't want to press on and find out a day removed from anywhere that, sorry, it wasn't the "vigorous exercise" that was the source.  As I was sitting there under the bridge pounding water, thankful that I had made it through that water-less stretch in clearly sub-optimal position, a hiker-temporarily-turned-trail-angel named Brewhiker poked his head down under the bridge to see if I needed a ride anywhere.  Timing like that, feeling like I was? Truly lives up to the term "magic."  He gave me a Cactus Cooler (oh yeah, it's back) and I don't him like little horrorshow of a story.  He immediately suspected it was dehydration.  To be fair, I had been worried about that all day (days even), but nothing I read online suggested dehydration as a cause.  Maybe it was in the "vigorous exercise" category with a suggested cause as pressure on the bladder (which, could make sense with wearing a backpacking pack for the first time, and probably wearing it just a bit less wrong each day), but I can tell you - it was definitely dehydration.  We circled over to the earlier spot where the trail approached the road, and - after a brief moment - saw Katie and Mike making their way down the trail.  We picked them up (Cactus Coolers all around!) and headed to Julian.  Brewhiker offered a bowl around, but I was way too worried about my health to want to add any new variables into the equation.

At Julian, we made a quick loop of main street (it's not very long) before parking at Carmen's.  Carmen is the incredible sort of person I am rapidly learning exists far more commonly that I thought, and that I am so, so grateful for.  She has a sign in front of her restaurant that read "Closed" when we pulled up, but directly below it - and just as big - is a sign saying "Except for Hikertrash".  I'll be honest, I wasn't really thrilled about the idea of calling myself hikertrash.  That night in Julian changed all that.

After getting there, a vet. named Jim who is thru-hiking but has been sucked into an off-trail vortex at Carmen's greeted all of us and told us where the free beer could be found.  I've heard, alternately, that Jim has been for eight days or since sometime in March.  A bunch of people I'd seen on the trail, hadn't seen before, or had seen but had never put a name to were all at Carmen's.  I finally felt comfortable around people, for the first time since getting on the trail, and really began to feel at ease at Carmen's.

*note: I lost some of this when my keyboard glitched out, re-writing it but now a bit frustrated and not sure exactly what I lost*
After being welcomed at Carmen's, I sat around drinking lots of water and hoping I wasn't about to keel over in my chair.  After a while, I finally had to pee - and it was clear.  Oh yes, never have I been so happy to see myself properly hydrated, mostly because never before have I found myself pissing blood.  It is remarkable to me how I went from well-rested and well-hydrated leaving Mt. Laguna to so dehydrated that I was pissing blood two days later.  Similarly, it is remarkable to me just how resilient the human body is; Not only was I able to finish that day's hike feeling pretty strong still, within hours of getting water I was back to peeing normally and feeling fine.  I certainly don't plan on doing it ever again, and I imagine that making a habit of it almost certainly *would* cause lasting damage, but it' s pretty remarkable how - at least one time - I was able to bounce back. 

My health newly confirmed restored, I was happy to discover another thru-hiker was getting ready to pass around a blunt.  The rest of the night was filled with shared stories from the trail, including the "trough water" that was the last water before that seventeen-mile dry stretch (it was full of algae clumps, dead bugs, and - bonus - live bugs).  A few people skipped it outright, and a number apparently said "fuck this noise" and hitchhiked to Scissor's Crossing rather than dealing with it.  Those of us who did now have a bond, and Matt - the most vocal about and probably earliest to the troughwater now has the trailname "Troughwater."  Yeah, that's appropriate - and unique.  I've heard of other "Bigfoot's" and "Hummingbird's", but I can't say I've ever heard of another "Troughwater."  Eventually, Carmen showed up (despite feeling under the weather), and made dinner for everyone - including vegan tacos especially for me.  By the next morning, I was feeling totally ready to hit the trail again.  I missed the earliest ride, which was shortly before eight, so I ended up getting a bit of a later start than I would have liked - hitting the trail back at Scissor's Crossing around 11am.

I should note, while (perhaps a bit too) stoned, Jet leaned over behind me with his phone.  I didn't think much of it, because it was right where the extension cord to charge phones was - but if a picture appears somewhere on social media of my asscrack #PCTA well...I guess I know what he was doing.  On the one hand, I think it's sort of dick move and not something I would have ever done...on the other hand, it's also pretty funny.

## 05/25 - Scissor's Crossing to Windy Hellhole
I got up, packed my bag, and lounged around a bit since I had missed the earliest ride.  After a couple of english muffins with peanut butter, and a few glasses of coffee (I really miss hot coffee, or really...any coffee), I eventually got a ride back to Scissor's Crossing from a local named Ed.  He spends a fair amount of time at Carmen's, and definitely helps hikers get from there back to Scissor's Crossing regularly.  This day was pretty uneventful, honestly, and seeing as it's now a day removed I'm not sure how much I'll remember.  I do know I took the following shot of a couple of military helicopters I won't even embarrass myself by attempting to identify.  I can say, entirely honestly, that it wasn't until looking at this picture that I noticed the hiker graffiti on the ground.  There's lots of examples of this sort of artwork, I'll try to capture some instances of the more "artistic" variety and post them next time.

{% include image.html url="0525_unstoppablepoo.jpg" caption="Unstoppable Poo - Subtitle to Helicopters" %}

Oh, there is one notable part of this day.  The reason I titled it "to Windy Hellhole."  I stopped at the third-gate cache to get water, and decided to press on for another hour or two in order to get closer to Warner Springs and make it easier to get into town in time to get to the post office before they closed.  After the first campsite I wanted was already occupied, the sun was starting to get low in the sky and it was beginning to get cold, so I really started hustling to get to the next campsite so I could hunker in for the night.  Initially I was pretty excited, because I came around from the shadow of the mountain into the sunny side.  Then I realized, it was also the side the wind was howling from.  The wind was probably up to 30mph+ gusts that night, and I was definitely feeling it.  I attempted to nestle my tent as close as I could against some brushes to provide some windblock, but it was still really windy.  All night long it was flexing in the wind and the fly was slapping against the tent proper.  The good news is my tent is remarkable resilient.  The bad news is it doesn't block dirt from getting kicked up and through the mesh, so I had a fine layer of grit throughout my entire tent.  I also definitely had a nightmare at one point, where I dreamed some mountain lion-wolf-wearbear creature was slamming against my tent trying to get in.  I woke up and while still emerging from that, I was totally convinced it was there and tried to yell at it to get away.  Only a pitiful whimper came out.  I never thought I would literally whimper when trying to yell, but between the strange environment (which was actually pretty cool) and still being half in that hellscape of a dream, I was unable to - at least for a second.  When I tried again, I screamed at what - it was clear to me now - was nothing, so rather than feeling elated that I was capable of screaming again, I just felt stupid for doing so.  Thankfully, the wind was so strong I'm sure no-one heard me being an idiot.

{% include image.html url="0525_campbreezy.jpg" caption="Camp Breezy - Not Recommended" %}

##  05/26 - Camp Breezy to Warner Springs

{% include image.html url="0526_amtrail.jpg" caption="View from Camp Breezy" %}

Another day, another ... 17ish? miles.  Today was a pretty good day.  I got up early since...Camp Breezy...and hit the trail at 6am.  It was awesome.  I really hate the heat.  I was up early enough that I needed my wind pants, jacket, and gloves.  It made hiking easier and faster.   I stopped for water about 6.7 miles in, and then carried on another 8-9 miles to get to Warner Springs.  I thought I was just going to grab my package and carry on, but the allure of a (bucket) shower and a chance to do laundry proved too much.  Plus, I feel like my insoles are dying.  My arch was really hurting by the end of today, and I have a nasty blister on the tip of one of my toes.  I'll have to patch it up a bit tomorrow.

{% include image.html url="0526_1009995.jpg" caption="100 Miles (Actually at 99.95)" %}

{% include image.html url="0526_100real.jpg" caption="100 Miles (For real this time)" %}

{% include image.html url="0526_100q.jpg" caption="100 Miles? (A bit further along)" %}

{% include image.html url="0526_cows.jpg" caption="Cows out standing in a field" %}