---
layout: post
title: "Warner Springs to Mike's Place"
date:  2017-05-27 21:18:01
categories: pct
lat: 33.381308
lng: -116.590688
---
So, today I shattered the screen of my phone.  I'm pretty unhappy about this, not only because I haven't damaged one of my phones since freshman year of high school when it took a dip in the river with me, but also because my phone is a very important piece of equipment out here.  It's the primary way I navigate / check my progress (through halfmile and guthook), look for campsites (guthook), and locate water (PCT water report as offline google sheet).  This phone has survived countless falls, but it has a good case (supcase) and has always managed to bounce away unharmed.  Today, it was resting on the top of a picnic table hooked up to my charger, and someone sitting down was enough to jostle it off the top of the charger; It fell three feet face first into the dirt, managing to find the only rock in the whole area, which shattered the screen so it looks like Charlotte's web.  It still works, which is nice, but I have a feeling that eventually the screen will disintegrate or moisture will get in and it will be game over.  For now, I backed up some essentials from the phone, and I'm going to keep using it.

Partly as a result of this nonsense, I ended up leaving Warner Springs later than I would have liked.  I left probably around 11am, and Joseph came with me, and we walked together for a few miles.  He's quicker than I am though, so pretty soon he went on ahead while I ambled my way along in his wake.  Katie had left several hours before us, and before too long the three of us were leapfrogging past one another throughout the day.

{% include image.html url="0527_view.jpg" caption="Another view from the trail" %}

{% include image.html url="0527_view2.jpg" caption="View from the trail, near the crest of one of the hills" %}

This was a hot day, and there wasn't much water available that wasn't of questionable quality.  The first water source that was supposed to be good was at "Mike's Place", a remote house in the hills where the owner had put up a large water tank for hikers to use.  It's about 17 miles down the trail from Warner Springs, so I left there fully hydrated and with 6 liters of water (probably actually closer to 6.5 or 7, as I overfill my bladder to carry another half-liter at least and do the same for the water bottles).  I've settled on 1 liter for every 3 miles if I'm going to be hiking in the middle of the day (still a stupid idea), since I'm a thirsty, sweaty, heat-averse guy and really need it to stay reasonably hydrated.  So far, I haven't reached a point where I felt like the volume of water I was carrying was outpaced by the extra sweating caused by carrying it, but 6-7 liters is about as much water as I'd like to carry at any time - water is heavy, and it's no fun schlepping extra weight uphill all day.

My feet really started bothering me shortly after my lunch break 4 hours and 10 miles into the day.  In particular, my arches just started killing me.  I pressed on, taking a couple short breaks, but was really hobbling slowly by the end of the day and just super-ready to get off my feet.  I think it's time for new shoes as this pair has a good number of miles on them (I walked at least 300 miles in this pair before even getting on the trail) and my feet have swelled enough that the tips of my toes are now getting blisters where they've begun to hit the end of the toe-box.  I'm planning to take a zero in Idyllwild, and shoe shopping is one of the items on my todo list.

{% include image.html url="0527_mikes.jpg" caption="Mike's Place" %}

I finally hobbled into Mike's Place around 7:30pm.  I saw Joseph just leaving from getting water at the tank as I arrived, and Katie walking down the road in the distance headed back to the PCT.  I went down the hill to Mike's Place (vs. just getting water at the tank near the top of the driveway), and I'm still not really sure what to write about - or think about - it.  From guthook's, I has seen some reviews of it as a super-hospitable place with couches to rest on, free homemade food and beer, and generally just sounding like a good time.  Others warned solo female travelers to avoid stopping there alone, as the caretaker (Josh) had been known to ask girls to sleep in his bed or "have a hot tub" with him.  I think there was at least one report of ass-grabbing as well.  Sketch.  When I got there, the few people around were oddly subdued, and I had to basically beat answers out of people to learn where I should get water (down here? or back up the hill?) and where I could set up a tent for the night.  Mike was also apparently there that night (maybe it's more of a party scene when it's just Josh?), but I didn't see him once.  I had my dinner and went to bed, glad to be off my feet but really looking forward to getting out of there early the next morning.  Given my experience there, I was pretty happy Katie had decided to keep going - I knew she had guthook's and so had likely seen the same information I had, but it was nice to know for sure that she hadn't stopped there alone.