---
layout: post
title: "Through the burn."
date:  2017-06-06 21:22:20
categories: pct
lat: 34.133469
lng: -116.745035
---
So, today wasn't a great day overall.  I woke up feeling a little tired, and as I was packing I couldn't find the stuff sack for my sleeping clothes.  I figured I had probably just left it in the stuff sack for my sleeping bag (which I fill each night with soft things to elevate my feet), and left convinced it would turn up later.

The start of today continued yesterday's trend of walking through some pretty boring terrain.  Today I decided I would just start listening to music from the very beginning, to help alleviate some of the boredom and distract myself from the soreness I was already feeling in my right ankle.  To wake me up, I went with some Waka Flaka Flame.  He goes hard in the paint, I go hard in the pines.

The trend throughout today was for the trail to rise up slightly onto rocky nothingness, only to descend again into lush, wooded areas where the trail would criss-cross a stream.  The stream was running well, almost too well, as there were a number of stream crossings where it was hard to avoid getting a foot wet.  I guess most of them you could have made it over if you jumped, but I'm pretty unwilling to do that - it just seems like too great a risk to land funny and hurt a foot, or to land really funny and crack your skull open when you fall onto a rock.  At a few points, it really wouldn't have been possible anyway - you were basically forced to walk up the muddy creek overflow between dense vegetation, so there wasn't really any room to avoid the mudwater.

{% include image.html url="0606_pleasantwoods.jpg" caption="A pleasant stretch of woods, before the creek just became mudwater passages." %}

At one point, not wanting to jump, I was forced to plunge my whole foot into the water.  I stopped about 3/4 of a mile down the trail to do some foot maintenance and take a little break.  I chose the spot because it was a campsite with a tree bench, so it was easy to sit down for a bit (though I was baking in the sun the whole time, which actually felt pretty good - maybe I'm reaching an appreciation for it as a "warm blanket" like Brewhiker described it).  I cleaned my foot with a wet wipe, reapplied a bandage around my big toe blister, and liberally applied more off-brand Tinactin.  Then, to really make things great, I put on my other, dry pair of socks.  Naturally, about 1/8th of a mile down the trail I had to go through a mudwater section where my sock and shoe were again wet.   At least they weren't soaked like the one had been, but it was still a little frustrating.

I passed a man getting a late start to his day at a nice shady campsite, and ran into him again a bit down the trail when I stopped to filter water.  He took a picture of me having a drink of water, so maybe that will turn up at some point.  We talked for a bit a ways down the trail when I caught up with him, and he expressed his thoughts on people rushing down the trail, not appreciating the natural beauty, just intent on getting to Canada.  In his words, "What's the fucking point?"  He described his approach, moving slowly and taking a ton of pictures, walking only about ten miles a day.  I sort of agree with his sentiment, but I feel like just about any pace one is walking with 20-30+ lbs. on his back is slow enough that you can soak in your surroundings.  That said, today I was not a very good example - I was moving along ignoring all sounds of the trail as I listened to music (Rebelution again by now), and I hadn't seen a huge number of dragonflies he mentioned as I navigated through the mudwater along the creek as I was focused on avoiding the non-existent poodle dog bush and as much mudwater as possible.  I've taken to calling him "walkabout man" as he said he realized what he was really doing was a walkabout.

{% include image.html url="0606_desertplant.jpg" caption="Strange, attractive desert plant that I can't name - just like most of them" %}

I had read that there was [poodle dog bush](https://www.pcta.org/2013/poodle-dog-bush-warning-8891/) along this section of trail, so all day I was on high alert for it.  I remembered reading that it had purple flowers, grew in straight stalks that tend to wither at the bottom, and "walkabout man" described the leaves as "like two-dimensional green beans".  I also had a couple of pictures of it.  Armed with this knowledge, I meticulously set about avoiding anything with a purple flower or folded-over green leaves.  Pretty much nothing I dodged so carefully was actually poodle dog bush, as now that I've seen it...they didn't look anything like it.  After Rebelution finished, my soundtrack until I stopped listening to music was Merle Haggard.  This was some really good walking music, highly recommended.  I think next time in town I'm also going to add some jug band music to my library as it seems to me now that it would be similarly well-suited.

{% include image.html url="0606_poodledogbush.jpg" caption="Poodle Dog Bush, the plant that bites." %}

There it is, poodle dog bush, finally.  This was around mile 240, just past a downed tree, and shortly before I stopped to get water.  Now that I know what it looks like, I feel more confident in my ability to spot it and avoid it.  I took a long (1.5 - 2 hr) break at a nice campsite under some trees, just uphill of a creek.  My feet were just beginning to really hurt me by this point in the day, and it took all my determination to lug liters of water up the little hill from the creek to the campsite, where I filtered it and stored / drank it.  To give you an idea of how "tail end" of the pack I am, or perhaps just how spread out people have become, not a single person passed me during this extended break.

After my long break, I continued along the trail, which immediately began a steep, uphill climb.  My feet were almost immediately in pain, mostly my arches, but occasional stabbing pain in my right ankle if I stepped down in any strange way.  I'm pretty tired of walking in valleys.  I can't describe the joy I feel walking at or near the ridges of some of these mountains, with a good breeze rushing past, feeling truly on top of the world.  It's a pretty fantastic feeling to stand at the top of a peak, arms outstretched, looking down on the world (even, on occasion, on things like helicopters).  It gives me some real frisson every time I do it, and it's all I can do not to just shout out in joy.  Eventually, I suspect my inhibitions will be overcome by raw joy, and I'll actually find myself, arms outstretched, howling madly at the top of some peak.

{% include image.html url="0606_burnwarning.jpg" caption="Burn Warning - things here might kill you." %}

{% include image.html url="0606_pctclimb.jpg" caption="A brief moment where it looked like I was getting back to a more normal PCT trail, winding it's way up a mountain" %}

The next miles of trail, through the heart of the burn zone - where camping is still prohibited - were pretty strenuous.  At first, I thought I was just tired, pained, and weak, but I met another group later on who confirmed that it was a pretty challenging stretch (and I've since seen the same sentiment echoed online).  The extended uphills also began to hurt my back, possibly partly because of how I had my pack adjusted (too much weight on my shoulders, in an effort to keep the pack tight against my back).  It was sort of beautiful, in an educational sort of way, as you really got to see the effects of a fire up-close and personally.  A lot of today's hike was actually like this, as you could see miles of burned hillside with nothing but scrub brush and the charred remains of trees.

{% include image.html url="0606_burn.jpg" caption="Shot of the burn-damaged forest" %}

{% include image.html url="0606_goodhiketom.jpg" caption="Good hike Tom - note left at a campsite in the no-camping area" %}

Toward the end of the no-camping zone, there was a picnic area with some horse corrals, which used to be accessible before the fire.  Now, it was pretty strange - picnic tables, fire pits with grills, horse corrals...but all disused and overgrown, with the water capped off, used by noone but hikers passing through.  At the far end of this campsite, there was a path to a small cave where water was pouring off of some rocks into a giant bucket.  There were a bunch of mosquitos lurking around (indeed, it seemed like a spot tailor-made for them), so I didn't linger but simply got my water and headed back to the area with the picnic tables.  I drank some more water and had dinner, before finally deciding to carry on a few miles.  My feet were just about killing me by this point, and I was feeling pretty dispirited - I'd had thoughts like, "hey, if I hit some poodle dog bush, at least I'd have a reason to get off this damn trail." - but I didn't want to stop in the area where camping was prohibited, so I decided to push on.  It was only a little over a mile to definitively clear the no-camping area, so that is what I was shooting for.  Again, it was a climb out of there, but it leveled off before too long.  Unfortunately, it was still pretty deep in the burn area, and pretty hilly off the trail, so there were not really any good spots to set up camp.  I made it to about half a mile past the safe end of the burn area, and managed to find a little spot tucked in between a few downed trees, and set up camp for the night there.  I was in quite a bit of pain, and generally feeling pessimistic about how likely it was that I'd be able to continue much longer - thinking I'd have to take an extended break from the trail to recover, which to me basically would spell an end to this trip.  

So, I ended the day exhausted, in pain, and feeling pretty dispirited - but at least I had another nice sunset.  Oh, and I did find my stuff sack - it wasn't in my sleeping bag sack, in fact I don't know where it was, but when I was setting up my tent it appeared inside it at one point (maybe it managed to get inside my sleeping bag itself?).

{% include image.html url="0606_sunset.jpg" caption="Sunset" %}
