---
layout: post
title: "Yellow Rose Spring"
date:  2017-05-20 18:17:21
categories: pct
lat: 32.753123
lng: -116.451858 
---
I took a pretty short day today, because I was damned tired after the 20 mile hike into Lake Morena on day one.  In the days leading up to starting my hike, I was also - unfortunately - pretty sleep deprived as I worked to get my life packed into storage, prepare months worth of food, and make all my last-minute gear tweaks.  (A big thank you to my parents, for letting me store all my stuff in their loft and cargo trailer, and for helping with packing - including dealing with the last bits I was outright too exhausted to handle).

But I'm out here, I'm really doing it, and does it ever feel good.  True to the water report, Yellow Rose Spring is flowing beautifully, and I'm at a nice campsite nestled between three trees - invisible from the road from all but one angle.  Since I got here, I've just heard birds chirping and the spring babbling nearly - some pretty nice background noise.  Everything about being out here just feels right.

I already took a nap for about an hour here, and I'll be honest, it took every bit of motivation I could muster to turn my phone back on and start making this post.  I'm feeling a bit more well-rested now, but definitely feel the tired that only comes from hard work - my shoulders are a bit sore, my left ankle is a bit bruised from where I keep brushing it with my right foot when going over obstacles (did I never learn how to walk?), and for the first 10 or so minutes when I begin walking my feet feel like reluctant sandpaper.

I had my first instance of trail magic today!  As I was leaving Boulder Oaks, a man (Steve) pulled onto the shoulder and asked if I wanted anything.  Oh hell yeah.  He had beer, soda, and nuts - and was heading to Boulder Oaks to make PB&Js for any passing hikers.  So awesome.  I had a Sprite, something I don't remember having since freshman year of high school (when it was my favorite soda).  I don't think a Sprite has ever tasted better  - ice cold, carbonated, and full of sugar.  It really is amazing what a small gesture can do, and I immediately felt "restored" and capable of powering through some more uphill just as I was starting to lag.  So, a big thanks to Steve, for showing me the power of trail magic.

Though today was a bit extreme for ending early, I'm pretty convinced that the schedule I want to get on will end sooner rather than later in the day.  It's really nice to set everything up when it's still warm and bright out, have time to let my dinner soak for a while, and wash up without feeling like I'm racing the clock before it gets dark and cold.  It's also nice to stop while not so exhausted it's all I can do just to accomplish said tasks.  At Lake Morena, by the time I had set up camp, showered, and prepared my food it was dark and i literally just leaned out of my tent door and greedily slurped up as much rice & beans as I could stomach - which was only about half of them.  It's been a bit weird, so far I haven't really been super hungry.  In fact, both days the thought of stopping to eat something for lunch made me want to throw up.  I think it's like how people throw up in sports when exerting themselves.  I've also been popping Tums like candy, which is probably due to some combination of physical exertion, diet change, and just drinking lots of water on a (mostly) empty stomach.  I'm going to try to eat more for breakfast in the hopes that it will leave my stomach feeling better.

There was a nice swimming hole by Kitchen Creek Falls, or so I've been told.  I powered right past it.  I was planning on stopping there, but I was in a rhythm when I saw the unlabeled turnoff to it, and didn't want to break my stride  to check if it was actually the right turnoff.  I also had been told by a couple of other hikers that it was labeled; If it was, I sure didn't see the label.

In all this nature, feeling so happy seeing all the birds (including hummingbirds!), lizards, snakes, rabbits, I do have to touch upon one (quite literally) shitty thing.  About an eighth of a mile down a dirt road from Hauser Creek someone or someones took a dump.  How do I know that? because the ground was littered with toilet paper.  Fucking nasty.  The same is true here at Yellow Rose Spring, only it's even closer to the water, which is particularly foul.  I've heard *so* much talk about Leave No Trace (LNT), and I'm starting to understand why people feel the need to talk about it so often - even if it's a minority of people doing this, it really mars the experience, and in cases like Yellow Rose Spring is downright unsanitary.

In case you were wondering, I have yet to take a shit on the trail.  Starting from a hotel before day one, and at a campground with toilets day two has meant that so far that's an experience I haven't had to indulge in.  I can't say I'm disappointed about that, though I know it's only a matter of time before I inevitably need to bust out my spade and dig a cathole of my own.
