---
layout: post
title: "Off the Trail"
date:  2017-06-13
categories: pct
lat: 39.154982
lng: -121.030626
---
I woke up shortly before 5am today, which isn't really surprising as I was in bed by 8:30pm last night.  I knew my Dad wouldn't be here until 10am at the earliest, so I had some time.  I went back to bed briefly, and then got up as I simply couldn't sleep any longer.  I began packing up all my gear, and as I thought about how it would be the last time for the foreseeable future that I was doing so, it became something of a sad ceremony.  I proceeded slowly, but ultimately it doesn't take too long, which on any other day would be a happy reflection that the system I'd arrived at was reasonably efficient.  Today, it just left me with more time to sit idly and think about the trail, and how I would soon be off of it.  I sat and listened to some Rebelution for a while, as it had been my go-to feel-good music, but it just wasn't really doing it for me today.  After about half of an album, and no longer caring about the battery life of my phone, I decided to watch the second episode of *Long Strange Trip*, an Amazon Prime documentary about the Grateful Dead that I had watched the first episode of while in Big Bear Lake (and downloaded the rest of for future viewing).  Leaned up against a shade-providing tree at the edge of my campsite, this provided about 40 minutes of distraction, but also had me feeling a bit guilty for insulating and isolating myself from the trail in the last hours I would have on it.  I packed up my headphones, and just sat on a rock taking in the sounds and sights of the trail, greeting the few hikers who passed through (each of which caused a new pang of sadness, thinking about how I soon would not be among *my people*, the strange others who have also come out here seeking something from the PCT).  I got a text from my Dad letting me know it was going to be closer to 11am that he would arrive, and - lacking anything better to do - I just continued to sit and wander around my campsite, drinking water, eating more, and looking and listening to my surroundings.  Shortly before 11am, I strapped my sleeping pad (which I had been using as a padded seat) to my pack, and ambled the short distance to the road crossing.  After a little confusion about whether he was on the correct road (it's not paved the whole way, just for a short section before the PCT crossing), my Dad arrived and we headed home.  I really didn't want to linger.  I was - and am - pretty disappointed to be off the trail, and sitting around just had me feeling like a failure or an imposter.  I still look the part of a thru-hiker, but now I'm just another person abandoning the trail.

We decided to take 395 home, even though its longer, as it is a more pleasant drive.  I didn't realize initially, but my Dad had driven down non-stop after leaving around 2:30am.  Thankfully, this meant he let me drive, which helped to keep me from just dwelling on thoughts of the trail - and, more to the point, thoughts of being off the trail.  We passed right through Lone Pine and Independence, where I asked that we *not* stop for lunch.  They just felt too close to the trail, common resupply points that they are, and the only way I was ready to spend time there was after hiking in as a thru-hiker, not driving through as an ex-hiker.

We took Highway 5 and skirted around Lake Tahoe, which was gorgeous and very full right now, before meeting up with I-80 for the last major leg of the trip to my parents' house.  We arrived shortly before 10pm, I ate something, and talked to my Mom a bit about the trail before going to bed.  It's hard for me to talk about the trail, and what it means to me, without fighting back tears.  I was really enjoying it out there, and felt like I was really making progress toward my [Why Hike?]({% link /pages/why-hike.md %}) goals - losing weight, learning about backpacking, meeting interesting people, and (most importantly) being outwardly more who I feel I am inwardly.  All I want right now is to be back out there continuing my progress toward those goals.  I'm not sure what my next step will be, not that I was when I first set out on the trail, but I did think I'd have months more time to figure that "trivial detail" out.