---
layout: post
title: "Three Days of Rest, Three Hours of Pain-free Walking"
date:  2017-06-12
categories: pct
lat: 34.2843775
lng: -116.9156289
---
I got up early(ish) today to pack up the items I hadn't already and have the continental breakfast one last time.  I was up early, so I had to wait around a bit for the beginning of the continental breakfast.  Oops.  The continental breakfast is only served on weekends and holidays.  I had seen "Big Bear Coffee" directly in front of the inn where I was staying, so I decided to try that for breakfast since it was so close.  It opened at 9am, so I sat around drinking water and gatorade to be well-hydrated for the day, and repeatedly checking the best water location and ensuring I had an appropriate amount of water packed.  When Big Bear Coffee finally opened, I went over - only to discover that they're pretty serious about the name.  They had lots of coffee options, but not a lot of things to eat.  In fact, all they had were some Kirkland muffins (which weren't vegan) and some **SUPERFOOD** cereals (just add hot water).  I got the roast of the day, which I really wish I had paid more attention to, because it was fantastic.  It was a "city roast" (430 F), and was just a bit fruity, very smooth, and not acidic at all.  I took the superfood back to my room at the inn, heated up some water, and ate it while mulling over my plan for the day.

I had my new shoes waiting for me at the Post Office, and had called right after they opened to check that they were actually there.  I was told that no mail would be available for pickup until after 11am, as it had to be sorted still.  This contradicted the "Sorting Complete" status I had from the website (at around 7am, no less) but I figured the woman actually at the Post Office probably had the best information.  When I checked the website shortly before 11am, it showed "Available for Pickup" at 9:36am.  I guess it's safer to just say 11am than give a window and deal with some irate customer who shows up at the early end and learns his package isn't yet available.  I would have made sure to get over there sooner, though, had I known my package was ready.  I left my pack at the inn office, as I didn't feel like lugging it across town and back (and a fellow hiker's pack had been stolen a few days earlier from a breakfast place's porch), and walked over to the Post Office.  Thankfully, my package was there and I was able to retrieve it without issue, and the woman at the counter (Tay) was the same woman who I had talked to about getting my other set of shoes forwarded to my parents the day before.  She assured me she would make sure that happened, and seemed glad that any potential confusion about which package was supposed to be forwarded was now totally avoided as I had picked up the first package.

I went outside, and immediately realized I had forgotten to bring my knife to open the package.  The whole trip I have been worried about losing my knife.  In order to open any of my dinners, it is pretty much essential, and I also use it daily (or twice daily) for footcare.  I had (and once again have) Leukotape, and a similar "second-skin" product I bought when I ran out of Leukotape, and with either I need to cut them to shape to wrap the long-lasting blister I've had on the side of the big toe of my left foot.  I know its incredibly likely I could ask someone to borrow a knife, bite it off, or use some makeshift knife (a rock? my headphone plug?), but sometimes it makes me think keeping that *US Army Recruitment Tool* might have been a good idea.  Having redundancy for my ability to care for my feet and my stomach seems like it could be *A Good Thing(tm)*.  I managed to use the flimsy metal piece on my watch wristband to puncture the tape and open the package.  I immediately put on the new shoes, and they feel (and look) fantastic.  I was worried that a size 14 would feel like a clown shoe (despite having tried on the "mid" version of the same shoe in a size 14 back in Idyllwild), but was very happy to discover that they just felt comfortable and my toes were no longer at risk of rubbing at the end of the toebox.

{% include image.html url="0612_shoes.jpg" caption="out with the old" %}

I returned to the inn and collected my pack, where the manager wished me good luck, and went outside to sit in a chair and figure out how I was going to manage to get out of Big Bear Lake.  As I had done in Banning, I checked the previous night to see if Lyft serviced Big Bear Lake.  It showed a ride available in 11 minutes, so I thought I was all set for today.  Not the case.  I don't know if it was some lost Lyft driver, a long ride ending in Big Bear Lake around that time, or a glitch in the software where it just hadn't updated ride availability since I had last used it...but there was no Lyft service in Big Bear Lake.  I installed Uber, as Yogi's Guide suggested "Try Uber" for getting a ride in Big Bear Lake, and after updating my credit card and stuff it did indeed seem they had drivers there.  At first, I didn't even see a time for how long it would be until able to get picked up though - not particularly promising.  Then, it showed 72 minutes.  Well, shit.  This isn't seeming like a great option.  After considering calling a trail angel and deciding I still felt like it was too much of an imposition (asking a stranger to come pick up one person for a trip that will take them about 40 minutes in total, midday on a Monday?), I decided to check Uber one last time.  A ride in 11 minutes? Hell yeah, lock that one in.  I'm out of here.  Several minutes later, I got a notification that my driver "had to cancel".  I question the had part of that statement, as I'm pretty sure my driver just *chose* to cancel rather than head back up to the nowhere that is the PCT trailhead crossing at Highway 18.  After a few more moments of spinning around in circles, I decided my best option to get back to the trail would be to take the bus to Big Bear City where I could get off right by Highway 18 and then hitch the remaining four miles to the trailhead.

I should mention at this point that Big Bear Lake was having fairly extensive construction on the road right through town.  Naturally, the most obvious bus stop for me to use was in one of the areas where multiple lanes were closed and the bus stop seemed totally inaccessible.  I decided not to chance whether the bus would actually stop there with the ongoing construction, and walked about 3/4 of a mile East to a spot past the construction to be sure I would catch the bus.  As I was sitting at the bus stop, a man named Steve rolled up on a bicycle with a big can of Steel Reserve in his hand and asked me the time.  I told him, and he sat away from me on a curb.  After a few minutes, he got up and started walking his bike into Big Bear Lake.  Unfortunately for him, as he went over the curb the resulting bump knocked the can of Steel Reserve out of his hand.  After some cursing, Steve was back at the bus stop, cracking open his can of Steel Reserve a bit earlier than he had intended.  We talked a bit about the trail, the fire, Big Bear Lake, and other more mundane things just to fill the time.  The bus showed up about 30 minutes late, so I had been there for close to 45 minutes, but I've pretty much accepted by this point that every departure from a town is going to take longer (and thus, be later) than I'd really like.

As we slowly weaved our way between Big Bear Lake and Big Bear City, it became clear than this bus was the preferred transport of the town drunks.  I guess it isn't surprising - who else would be taking a rural bus at 2pm on a Monday? - but it made for an entertaining bus ride.  It was clear that it was "the usual suspects" on the bus, as they all knew the bus driver and he knew all of them including where they wanted to be going.  Eventually, we made it to the stop I wanted at Big Bear City and the bus driver gave me a little parting advice about where the best spot to hitch was, and to watch out for "the chippers" (CHP) who, according to him, aren't big fans of hitchhiking hikers.  I was quite pleasantly surprised to get a ride after only a few minutes at the side of the road (in contrast with my attempt to get into town days earlier), with a nice man in a Ford Explorer who worked at the nearby airport.  We talked about how much snow Big Bear Lake had gotten this past winter, how low the lake was (and a sewage leak years earlier where they drained one of the lakes), and about my trip on the trail so far.  Minutes later, we arrived at the trailhead and I said my goodbye and thanked him for picking me up.  It seems he picks people up fairly regularly in both directions and he's coming and going between work / lunch / home / wherever, which I think is pretty great of him.  What may seem like little gestures really make a big difference when you're at the mercy of people's kindness, and may otherwise have hours of waiting or walking in your future.

{% include image.html url="0612_nobikes.jpg" caption="Bicycles aren't supposed to be on the PCT" %}

I was very glad to be back on the trail, and the trip out of Big Bear Lake was quite pretty.  Unlike much of the trip so far, it was also cool and shady, which made for a nice afternoon hike.  After about an hour in, deep in my own thoughts, a mountain biker appeared over a small crest in the trail ahead of me.  Reflexively, I stepped off to the side of the trail, as my thoughtscape shattered and I was brought back to more immediate concerns.  This happened quickly enough that I was able to sternly admonish the biker, "You are not supposed to bike on this trail."  He replied, "Ok," not dismissively or sarcastically, but also with little concern.  I had read in Yogi's guide about cyclists on the trail (indeed, she has a little rant about it), and I wasn't sure how I would feel when it inevitably happened to me.  As I continued on down the trail, the path of the biker's tires visible for miles, I got my answer.  I had the dark fantasy of seeing him again on his return trip and ramming my hiking pole through the spokes of his front wheel, watching as he flipped over his handlebars and his expensive bike was damaged.  *These hiking sticks were only about $30 for the pair, I'm not worried about breaking the other one over your head if you come for me.*  Dark. Twisted.  Nothing I would ever do, yet left no doubt in my mind about how I felt about bikers on the trail.  Not only is the trail narrow, with often limited visibility (hence how startling it was seeing him appear over the crest directly in front of me), but the damage from his tires was significantly more (and more obvious) that any of the footprints from hikers.  I saw a number of intersecting trails for mountain bikes, so it isn't even like there weren't other options, and the PCT has signs at just about every intersection stating in definitive terms that bicycles are not allowed on the PCT.  At least for this section, there were also signs periodically along the trail stating the same.  Ignorance is no excuse to begin with, and in this case I have a very hard time believing it was ignorance and not deliberately, selfishly choosing to bike on the trail while fully aware that it was prohibited.

{% include image.html url="0612_rocky.jpg" caption="One of several rocky sections of trail" %}

{% include image.html url="0612_pleasant.jpg" caption="A pleasant section of trail" %}

{% include image.html url="0612_bigbearlake.jpg" caption="View down toward Big Bear Lake" %}

I pushed my frustration with the cyclist out of my mind, and got back to enjoying the trail.  Sadly, after only a couple more hours - including some pretty rocky sections - we arrive at the title of this post.  Three hours in, I stopped to have a snack and get off my feet as my right foot was once again in lots of pain - the same sharp, stabbing pain I had been experiencing since my last day into Cabazon after rolling my ankle.  I took a break on the longer side (around 45 minutes) to give my feet a break, taking both shoes and socks off and hanging out on some rocks by the side of the trail.  Within footsteps back on the trail, however, the stabbing pain was back in full effect - leaving me leaning on my hiking poles like crutches, wincing in pain with every step.  This is not viable.  I limped along, worried about what I was going to do, finally accepting that whatever injury I had done to my foot was not going to recover with just a few days rest.  After another hour or so, I arrived at a trail crossing.  I stopped and looked at my maps, trying to determine where the crossing trail went, and seriously considering for the first time that I might need to get off the trail.  The trail wasn't a good option to get off the trail, but as I sat there debating what to do for about 30 minutes, I kept arriving at the same, disappointing conclusion: *I need to get off the trail.  This injury isn't going away.  Pressing on in pain is miserable, slow, and likely to lead to worse injury.*  

This really was a horribly disappointing conclusion, about as far from what I wanted as possible, as hiking on the PCT is the happiest I can remember being.  The combination of solitude, physical exertion, and natural beauty really works for me.  Though I've had frustrations, they have always been fleeting, and I end every day just marveling at the fact that I'm actually out here doing this - that I'm even *able* to do this, that such a trail exists.  The feeling of looking down from a ridge just summited is simultaneously empowering and incredibly humbling, and traveling through alien ecosystems as the interloper has given me a new appreciation and respect for just how alive even the desert is.  I've enjoyed having hours, uninterrupted, to mull over my own thoughts and learn about myself.  I feel like I've been making real progress toward my goal of "who I am more closely resembl[ing] who I want to be," and I'm not ready to leave.  I've made progress, but I'm not at the goal, and every day I'm out here I'm making real progress.  I'm getting closer.  I'm also having an incredibly good time.

I looked at my maps, and found that not too far down the trail was a road crossing with Polique Canyon Road, which seemed to be a fairly short drive from a main road and a reasonably easy road to drive up in a car.  I called my Dad, holding back tears as one of my biggest fears since I first hurt myself was manifesting itself.  He didn't immediately pick up, and I hung up, not really wanting to acknowledge that I needed to get off the trail.  I sat for a minute more, once again wondering if there was any way I could just push through the pain or any chance it would go away.  Once again, I arrived at the conclusion that I needed to get off the trail.  My Dad called me back and I relayed all this info to him.

I am eternally grateful for the support my parents have given me: storing my worldly possessions, dealing with those items I left behind in my rush, caring for my cat, managing my resupply, and now coming to collect me from the trail when I've decided I can't continue.  I hobbled a little over a mile down the trail to a campsite I had seen 1/10th of a mile before the road crossing, to what will be my final night on the trail - at least for now - and got ready for bed.  Tomorrow, my Dad will be here sometime in the morning, and I'll be off the PCT for the foreseeable future.

{% include image.html url="0612_campsite.jpg" caption="My final campsite" %}
